A DynamoDB Stream is an ongoing flow of events,
which includes all changes made to a Dynamo table.
This event stream will be empty if there are no changes being made to a table.
But when table changes are made,
an event will be placed into the DynamoDB Stream for each change.
This includes all change events: creating,
updating, deleting any item in the table.
Operations that only read items from table will not be included in the stream.
So why do we want this?
Streams allow you to take an action on a change to the database.
For example, if you wanted to track how many new accounts were created over time,
you could have an application process your stream and take an action on
each create event or if you wanted to send
an INET message to a user for setting a high score in an online game,
you could use a lambda function to compare
any score increases to the current leader board.
There are many potential uses for DynamoDB Streams,
including DynamoDB global tables,
otherwise known as multi-region redundancy.
DynamoDB Streams are used to create global tables.
A global table is a DynamoDB table replicated across regions.
As you've seen, creating multi-region services is usually not trivial.
However, this is one case where it's actually quite simple.
You enable DynamoDB Streams and then
select the region to which you would like to replicate your table.
AWS takes care of the rest.
Global tables are active, active.
This means that you can write to the table in
any region and the changes propagate to all of the other regions.
This is different from the read replica model that many RDS services follow,
where the replicated data can only be read.
Being active, active allows you to run services in multiple region and
have those applications access the data locally and operate with some autonomy,
which creates even more redundancy in your environment.
DynamoDB takes advantage of
the AWS network backbone to provide low latency data replication across regions.
Multi-region active, active datastores are a big deal.
Many databases and services are unable to accomplish this,
or they require a large amount of effort to set up and maintain.
For use cases that require it,
DynamoDB offers tremendous resiliency.